Ribs

The best way to cook ribs is with low heat for a long time.

The problem is, this is a terrible way to cook bbq sauce - it will just
burn right away.

The best solution is just to rub dry spices on the meat, and only
put on bbq sauce in a final "crisping" stage on the grill. The
crisping isn't even really necessary, but it ensures that people get
the ribs when they are hot, heats up the bbq sauce, and provides a bit
of spectacle.

A serving is about three or four ribs. Like all mammals, pigs have 13 ribs,
so a rack is about four servings. Often ribs come in half-rack pieces,
but if you tell the butcher "hey I need about four times what you have
on display here" they will go get full racks for you.

---

Ingredients

Get pork ribs. Beef ribs are totally different.
Also get some expensive weird bbq sauce.
Also heavy-duty aluminum foil.

This rub recipe is "kansas city style". Usually I am out of a couple
ingredients but it doesn't really matter as long as you have the sugar and
paprika.

1/2 cup dark brown sugar
1/4 cup paprika
1 tb black pepper
1 tb salt
1 tb chili powder
1 tb garlic powder
1 tb onion powder
1 tsp cayenne pepper
1 tsp ancho pepper

This amount of rub can handle a rack and a half of ribs, but maybe not
two racks. More rub makes it easier to coat the ribs, and you can save it,
so make extra.

---

Meat prep

Wash the ribs well.

Remove the funny layer of skin on the concave side.
If you can't remove it at least hack it all up so that it doesn't
prevent flavor from seeping into the ribs.

Dry the ribs off with paper towels.

Cover with rub. The goal here is to make as much rub as physically
possible stick to the ribs.

Encase in 2 layers of heavy-duty aluminum foil.

Leave in the fridge overnight or for a few days.

---

Showtime

Cook in the aluminum foil for 4 hours 15 minutes at 225. These parameters
seem to matter a lot. 4:15/225 is empirically optimal for me but it
seems different for different ovens.

Open the aluminum and let it sit for 10 minutes. Letting it sit for
longer is fine, if you cooked a big batch and the grill or appetites
are a bottleneck.

When you're finishing on the grill, the key is to make sure the ribs
are totally covered with bbq sauce and that the bbq sauce gets hot.
You can aim for crispy but that is lower priority.
